---
title: "Evaluating Open LLMs with MixEval: The Closest Benchmark to LMSYS Chatbot Arena"
site: "Philipp Schmid"
published: 2024-06-28
source: "https://www.philschmid.de/evaluate-llm-mixeval"
domain: "philschmid.de"
language: "en"
word_count: 1035
---

# Evaluating Open LLMs with MixEval: The Closest Benchmark to LMSYS Chatbot Arena

\_Last updated: 2024-09-23.\_ Traditional ground-truth-based benchmarks, while efficient and reproducible, often fail to capture the complexity and nuance of real-world applications to evaluate LLMs. LLM-as-judge benchmarks attempt to address this by using models to evaluate responses, but they can suffer from grading biases and limited query quantity. User-facing evaluations like \[LMSYS Chatbot Arena\](https://huggingface.co/spaces/lmsys/chatbot-arena-leaderboard) are currently one of the most trusted sources for assessing the quality of LLMs. While they provide reliable signals, they have significant drawbacks—they are costly, time-consuming, and not easily reproducible. \[MixEval\](https://mixeval.github.io/) tries to bridge the gap between real-world user queries and efficient ground-truth-based benchmarks. It currently has a 0.96 model ranking correlation with Chatbot Arena and costs less than $1 dollar to run. !\[mixeval\](/static/blog/evaluate-llm-mixeval/mixeval.png) ## What is MixEval? \[MixEval and MixEval-Hard\](https://mixeval.github.io/) combine existing benchmarks with real-world user queries from the web to close the gap between academic and real-world use. They match queries mined from the web with similar queries from existing benchmarks. 1. High Correlation: Achieves a 0.96 model ranking correlation with Chatbot Arena, ensuring accurate model evaluation. 2. Cost-Effective: Costs only around $0.6 to run using GPT-3.5 as a judge, which is about 6% of the time and cost of running MMLU. 3. Dynamic Evaluation: Utilizes a rapid and stable data update pipeline to mitigate contamination risk. 4. Comprehensive Query Distribution: Based on a large-scale web corpus, providing a less biased evaluation. 5. Fair Grading: Ground-truth-based nature ensures an unbiased evaluation process. MixEval comes in two versions: 1. MixEval: The standard benchmark that balances comprehensiveness and efficiency. 2. MixEval-Hard: A more challenging version designed to offer more room for model improvement and enhance the benchmark's ability to distinguish strong models. ## Evaluate open LLM on MixEval MixEval offers comes with a \[public GitHub\](https://github.com/Psycoy/MixEval/) repository to evaluate LLMs. However, this comes with some limitations. I created this \[fork\](https://github.com/philschmid/MixEval) to make the integration and use of MixEval easier during the training of new models. This Fork includes several improved features to make usage easier and more flexible. Including: 1. \*\*Local Model Evaluation\*\*: Support for evaluating local models during or post-training with \`transformers\`. 2. \*\*Hugging Face Datasets Integration\*\*: Eliminates the need for local files by integrating with Hugging Face Datasets. 3. \*\*Accelerated Evaluation\*\*: Utilizes Hugging Face TGI or vLLM to speed up evaluation 4. \*\*Enhanced Output\*\*: Improved markdown outputs and timing for training. 5. \*\*Simplified Installation\*\*: Fixed pip install for remote or CI integration. To install this enhanced version of MixEval, use the following command: \`\`\`bash pip install git+https://github.com/philschmid/MixEval --upgrade \`\`\` For more detailed instructions on evaluating models not included by default, refer to the MixEval documentation. \*Note: Make sure you have a valid OpenAI Key, since GPT-3.5 will be used as “parser”.\* ### Evaluate Local LLMs during or post training A single command can evaluate local LLMs on MixEval (\`mixeval\_hard\`). \`\`\` MODEL\_PARSER\_API=$(echo $OPENAI\_API\_KEY) python -m mix\_eval.evaluate \ --data\_path hf://zeitgeist-ai/mixeval \ --model\_path my/local/path \ --output\_dir results/agi-5 \ --model\_name local\_chat \ --benchmark mixeval\_hard \ --version 2024-08-11 \ --batch\_size 20 \ --api\_parallel\_num 20 \`\`\` Let's try to better understand this: - \`data\_path\`: Location of the mixeval set we want to use, here hosted on \[hugging face\](https://huggingface.co/datasets/zeitgeist-ai/mixeval). - \`model\_path\`: Path to our trained model, this can also be a Hugging Face ID, e.g. \`organization/model\` - \`output\_dir\` : Where the results will be stored - \`model\_name\`: Here, you would normally specify the \`mixeval\` model as defined in the GitHub, but in the fork, we implemented an agnostic \`local\_chat\` version. (if you want to customize the .generate args, you need to \[register a new model\](https://github.com/Psycoy/MixEval/?tab=readme-ov-file#registering-new-models).) - \`benchmark\`: Either \`mixeval\` or \`mixeval\_hard\` - \`version\`: Version of MixEval, the team plans to update the prompts and tasks regularly - \`batch\_size\`: The batch size of the generator model - \`api\_parallel\_num\`: Number of parallel requests sent to OpenAI. You can find all possible args in the \[code\](https://github.com/philschmid/MixEval/blob/d0f5a31e0a769886274236b5604e2859adeed370/mix\_eval/evaluate.py#L36). After running the evaluation, MixEval provides a comprehensive breakdown of the model's performance across various metrics. \`\`\` | Metric | Score | | --------------------------- | ------- | | MBPP | 100.00% | .... | overall score (final score) | 35.15% | \`\`\` ### Accelerated evaluation LLMs using vLLM When training new models or experimenting, you want to iterate quickly. Therefore, I added support for any “API” that implements the OpenAI API, e.g., \[vLLM\](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/v0.4.0/getting\_started/installation.html) or \[Hugging Face TGI\](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/index). This allows us to evaluate LLMs quickly and without the need to register or implement custom code, including the evaluation of Hosted. 1. Start your LLM serving framework, e.g. vLLM \`\`\`python python -m vllm.entrypoints.openai.api\_server --model alignment-handbook/zephyr-7b-dpo-full \`\`\` 1. Run MixEval in another terminal. \`\`\`python MODEL\_PARSER\_API=$(echo $OPENAI\_API\_KEY) API\_URL=http://localhost:8000/v1 python -m mix\_eval.evaluate \ --data\_path hf://zeitgeist-ai/mixeval \ --model\_name local\_api \ --model\_path alignment-handbook/zephyr-7b-dpo-full \ --benchmark mixeval\_hard \ --version 2024-08-11 \ --batch\_size 20 \ --output\_dir results \ --api\_parallel\_num 20 \`\`\` In comparison to the local evaluation, we need to make some changes: - \`API\_URL\`: Domain/URL where our model is hosted - \`API\_KEY\`: Optional in case you need authorization - \`model\_name\` : similar to the “local\_chat” model we added a “local\_api” model - \`model\_path\`: the model id in your Hosted API, e.g., for vLLM, it is the Hugging Face model id After running the evaluation, MixEval provides a comprehensive breakdown of the model's performance across various metrics. \`\`\` | Metric | Score | | --------------------------- | ------- | | MBPP | 100.00% | ... | overall score (final score) | 34.85% | \`\`\` Evaluating Zephyr 7b on 1x H100 with vLLM took 398s or ~7 minutes. That is very quick and also allows evaluation during training. But as you might have noticed, the score is slightly different; instead of \`35.15\`, we achieved \`34.85\`. ## Conclusion MixEval offers a powerful and easy way to evaluate open LLMs. The 0.96 correlation to the LMSYS Chatbot Arena provides reliable results at a fraction of the cost and time. Running MixEval costs just $0.6 using GPT-3.5 as a judge—only 6% of the time and expense of running MMLU. The improved fork of MixEval allows you to evaluate models using vLLM or TGI in just 7 minutes on a single H100 GPU. This combination of accuracy, speed, and cost-effectiveness makes MixEval a perfect benchmark to use when building new models. --- Thanks for reading! If you have any questions or feedback, please let me know on \[Twitter\](https://twitter.com/\_philschmid) or \[LinkedIn\](https://www.linkedin.com/in/philipp-schmid-a6a2bb196/).