---
title: "Deploy Llama 3 on Amazon SageMaker"
site: "Philipp Schmid"
published: 2024-04-18
source: "https://www.philschmid.de/sagemaker-llama3"
domain: "philschmid.de"
language: "en"
word_count: 1549
---

# Deploy Llama 3 on Amazon SageMaker

Earlier today Meta released \[Llama 3\](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama3), the next iteration of the open-access Llama family. Llama 3 comes in two sizes: \[8B\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct) for efficient deployment and development on consumer-size GPU, and \[70B\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-instruct) for large-scale AI native applications. Both come in base and instruction-tuned variants. In addition to the 4 models, a new version of Llama Guard was fine-tuned on Llama 3 8B and is released as Llama Guard 2 (safety fine-tune). In this blog you will learn how to deploy \[meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct) model to Amazon SageMaker. We are going to use the Hugging Face LLM DLC is a purpose-built Inference Container to easily deploy LLMs in a secure and managed environment. The DLC is powered by \[Text Generation Inference (TGI)\](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference) a scalelable, optimized solution for deploying and serving Large Language Models (LLMs). The Blog post also includes Hardware requirements for the different model sizes. In the blog will cover how to: 1. \[Setup development environment\](#1-setup-development-environment) 2. \[Hardware requirements\](#2-hardware-requirements) 3. \[Deploy Llama 3 70b to Amazon SageMaker\](#3-deploy-llama-3-to-amazon-sagemaker) 4. \[Run inference and chat with the model\](#4-run-inference-and-chat-with-the-model) 5. \[Benchmark llama 3 70B with llmperf\](#5-benchmark-llama-3-70b) 6. \[Clean up\](#6-clean-up) Lets get started! ## 1. Setup development environment We are going to use the \`sagemaker\` python SDK to deploy Mixtral to Amazon SageMaker. We need to make sure to have an AWS account configured and the \`sagemaker\` python SDK installed. \`\`\`python !pip install "sagemaker>=2.216.0" --upgrade --quiet \`\`\` If you are going to use Sagemaker in a local environment. You need access to an IAM Role with the required permissions for Sagemaker. You can find \[here\](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/sagemaker-roles.html) more about it. \`\`\`python import sagemaker import boto3 sess = sagemaker.Session() # sagemaker session bucket -> used for uploading data, models and logs # sagemaker will automatically create this bucket if it not exists sagemaker\_session\_bucket=None if sagemaker\_session\_bucket is None and sess is not None: # set to default bucket if a bucket name is not given sagemaker\_session\_bucket = sess.default\_bucket() try: role = sagemaker.get\_execution\_role() except ValueError: iam = boto3.client('iam') role = iam.get\_role(RoleName='sagemaker\_execution\_role')\['Role'\]\['Arn'\] sess = sagemaker.Session(default\_bucket=sagemaker\_session\_bucket) print(f"sagemaker role arn: {role}") print(f"sagemaker session region: {sess.boto\_region\_name}") \`\`\` Compared to deploying regular Hugging Face models we first need to retrieve the container uri and provide it to our \`HuggingFaceModel\` model class with a \`image\_uri\` pointing to the image. To retrieve the new Hugging Face LLM DLC in Amazon SageMaker, we can use the \`get\_huggingface\_llm\_image\_uri\` method provided by the \`sagemaker\` SDK. This method allows us to retrieve the URI for the desired Hugging Face LLM DLC based on the specified \`backend\`, \`session\`, \`region\`, and \`version\`. You can find the available versions \[here\](https://github.com/aws/deep-learning-containers/blob/master/available\_images.md#huggingface-text-generation-inference-containers) \_Note: At the time of writing this blog post the latest version of the Hugging Face LLM DLC is not yet available via the \`get\_huggingface\_llm\_image\_uri\` method. We are going to use the raw container uri instead.\_ \`\`\`python # COMMENT IN WHEN PR (https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/pull/4314) IS MERGED # from sagemaker.huggingface import get\_huggingface\_llm\_image\_uri # # retrieve the llm image uri # llm\_image = get\_huggingface\_llm\_image\_uri( # "huggingface", # version="2.0.0" # ) llm\_image = f"763104351884.dkr.ecr.{sess.boto\_region\_name}.amazonaws.com/huggingface-pytorch-tgi-inference:2.1-tgi2.0-gpu-py310-cu121-ubuntu22.04" # print ecr image uri print(f"llm image uri: {llm\_image}") \`\`\` llm image uri: 763104351884.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/huggingface-pytorch-tgi-inference:2.1-tgi2.0-gpu-py310-cu121-ubuntu22.04 ## 2. Hardware requirements Llama 3 comes in 2 different sizes - 8B & 70B parameters. The hardware requirements will vary based on the model size deployed to SageMaker. Below is a set up minimum requirements for each model size we tested. | Model | Instance Type | Quantization | # of GPUs per replica | | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- | ------------ | --------------------- | | \[Llama 8B\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct) | \`(ml.)g5.2xlarge\` | \`-\` | 1 | | \[Llama 70B\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct) | \`(ml.)g5.12xlarge\` | \`gptq / awq\` | 8 | | \[Llama 70B\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct) | \`(ml.)g5.48xlarge\` | \`-\` | 8 | | \[Llama 70B\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct) | \`(ml.)p4d.24xlarge\` | \`-\` | 8 | \_Note: We haven't tested GPTQ or AWQ models yet.\_ ## 3. Deploy Llama 3 to Amazon SageMaker To deploy \[Llama 3 70B\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct) to Amazon SageMaker we create a \`HuggingFaceModel\` model class and define our endpoint configuration including the \`hf\_model\_id\`, \`instance\_type\` etc. We will use a \`p4d.24xlarge\` instance type, which has 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs and 320GB of GPU memory. Llama 3 70B instruct is a fine-tuned model for conversational AI this allows us to enable the \[Messages API\](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/messages\_api) from TGI to interact with llama using the common OpenAI format of \`messages\`. \`\`\`json { "messages": \[ { "role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant." }, { "role": "user", "content": "What is deep learning?" } \] } \`\`\` \_Note: Llama 3 is a gated model, please visit the \[Model Card\](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct) and accept the license terms and acceptable use policy before submitting this form.\_ \`\`\`python import json from sagemaker.huggingface import HuggingFaceModel # sagemaker config instance\_type = "ml.p4d.24xlarge" health\_check\_timeout = 900 # Define Model and Endpoint configuration parameter config = { 'HF\_MODEL\_ID': "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct", # model\_id from hf.co/models 'SM\_NUM\_GPUS': "8", # Number of GPU used per replica 'MAX\_INPUT\_LENGTH': "2048", # Max length of input text 'MAX\_TOTAL\_TOKENS': "4096", # Max length of the generation (including input text) 'MAX\_BATCH\_TOTAL\_TOKENS': "8192", # Limits the number of tokens that can be processed in parallel during the generation 'MESSAGES\_API\_ENABLED': "true", # Enable the messages API 'HUGGING\_FACE\_HUB\_TOKEN': "" } # check if token is set assert config\['HUGGING\_FACE\_HUB\_TOKEN'\] != "", "Please set your Hugging Face Hub token" # create HuggingFaceModel with the image uri llm\_model = HuggingFaceModel( role=role, image\_uri=llm\_image, env=config ) \`\`\` After we have created the \`HuggingFaceModel\` we can deploy it to Amazon SageMaker using the \`deploy\` method. We will deploy the model with the \`ml.p4d.24xlarge\` instance type. TGI will automatically distribute and shard the model across all GPUs. \`\`\`python # Deploy model to an endpoint # https://sagemaker.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/inference/model.html#sagemaker.model.Model.deploy llm = llm\_model.deploy( initial\_instance\_count=1, instance\_type=instance\_type, container\_startup\_health\_check\_timeout=health\_check\_timeout, # 10 minutes to be able to load the model ) \`\`\` SageMaker will now create our endpoint and deploy the model to it. This can takes a 10-15 minutes. ## 4. Run inference and chat with the model After our endpoint is deployed we can run inference on it. We will use the \`predict\` method from the \`predictor\` to run inference on our endpoint. We can inference with different parameters to impact the generation. Parameters can be defined as in the \`parameters\` attribute of the payload. You can find supported parameters in the \[here\](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/messages\_api). The Messages API allows us to interact with the model in a conversational way. We can define the role of the message and the content. The role can be either \`system\`,\`assistant\` or \`user\`. The \`system\` role is used to provide context to the model and the \`user\` role is used to ask questions or provide input to the model. \`\`\`json { "messages": \[ { "role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant." }, { "role": "user", "content": "What is deep learning?" } \] } \`\`\` \`\`\`python # Prompt to generate messages=\[ { "role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant." }, { "role": "user", "content": "What is deep learning?" } \] # Generation arguments parameters = { "model": "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct", # placholder, needed "top\_p": 0.6, "temperature": 0.9, "max\_tokens": 512, "stop": \["<|eot\_id|>"\], } \`\`\` Okay lets test it. \`\`\`python chat = llm.predict({"messages" :messages, \*\*parameters}) print(chat\["choices"\]\[0\]\["message"\]\["content"\].strip()) \`\`\` ## 5. Benchmark llama 3 70B with llmperf We successfully deployed Llama 3 70B to Amazon SageMaker and tested it. Now we want to benchmark the model to see how it performs. We will use a \[llmperf\](https://github.com/philschmid/llmperf) fork with support for \`sagemaker\`. First lets install the \`llmperf\` package. \`\`\`python !git clone https://github.com/philschmid/llmperf.git !pip install -e llmperf/ \`\`\` Now we can run the benchmark with the following command. We are going to benchmark using \`25\` concurrent users and max \`500\` requests. The benchmark will measure \`first-time-to-token\`, \`latency (ms/token)\` and \`throughput (tokens/s)\` full details can be found in the \`results\` folder \_🚨Important🚨: This benchmark was initiatied from Europe, while the endpoint runs in us-east-1. This has significant impact on the \`first-time-to-token\` metric, since it includes the network communication. If you want to measure the \`first-time-to-token\` correctly, you need to run the benchmark on the same host or your production region.\_ \`\`\`python # tell llmperf that we are using the messages api !MESSAGES\_API=true python llmperf/token\_benchmark\_ray.py \ --model {llm.endpoint\_name} \ --llm-api "sagemaker" \ --max-num-completed-requests 500 \ --timeout 600 \ --num-concurrent-requests 25 \ --results-dir "results" \`\`\` Lets parse the results and display them nicely. \`\`\`python import glob import json # Reads the summary.json file and prints the results with open(glob.glob(f'results/\*summary.json')\[0\], 'r') as file: data = json.load(file) print("Concurrent requests: 25") print(f"Avg. Input token length: {data\['mean\_input\_tokens'\]}") print(f"Avg. Output token length: {data\['mean\_output\_tokens'\]}") print(f"Avg. First-Time-To-Token: {data\['results\_ttft\_s\_mean'\]\*1000:.2f}ms") print(f"Avg. Thorughput: {data\['results\_mean\_output\_throughput\_token\_per\_s'\]:.2f} tokens/sec") print(f"Avg. Latency: {data\['results\_inter\_token\_latency\_s\_mean'\]\*1000:.2f}ms/token") # Concurrent requests: 25 # Avg. Input token length: 550 # Avg. Output token length: 150 # Avg. First-Time-To-Token: 1301.28ms # Avg. Thorughput: 1116.25 tokens/sec # Avg. Latency: 9.45ms/token \`\`\` Thats it! We successfully deployed, tested and benchmarked Llama 3 70B on Amazon SageMaker. The benchmark is not a full representation of the model performance, but it gives you a first good indication. If you plan to use the model in production, we recommend to run a longer and closer to your production benchmark, modify the number of replicas see (\[Scale LLM Inference on Amazon SageMaker with Multi-Replica Endpoints\](https://www.philschmid.de/sagemaker-multi-replicahttps://www.philschmid.de/sagemaker-multi-replica)) and most importantly test the model with your own data. ## 6. Clean up To clean up, we can delete the model and endpoint. \`\`\`python llm.delete\_model() llm.delete\_endpoint() \`\`\` --- Thanks for reading! If you have any questions, feel free to contact me on \[Twitter\](https://twitter.com/\_philschmid) or \[LinkedIn\](https://www.linkedin.com/in/philipp-schmid-a6a2bb196/).